---
layout: post
title:  "Faster"
date:   2018-01-10
categories: random
author: Bagus Trihatmaja
---

Most of what I think is how to be more efficient. To read faster, to walk faster, and even to eat faster (yet still healthy).
The goal is simple: to do more things. 
I try to hack everything that I can. I have two lockers in college this semester to put everything I need while I am in college. I freeze the food that I cooked a week ago in the college's fridge.
I have banana, I have everything that I need in college. 

But, why do I need to be fast?  

One of my goal this year is to question **everything** (see my blog post about my last year reflection [here](https://prdx.github.io/thoughts/meditations/)).
So, why don't we list all of them:

1. I want to study as much as I can
2. I want to help as many person as I can with the knowledge I have
2. I want to gain more experience in something I enjoy
3. I want to maintain a good relationship with my friends and family

Then, it raises questions. Can I do it slower? If yes, how fast is slow?

Do we define slow, in this context, as something like, the pace we enjoy (I don't think so, we can also enjoy being fast)? Would being slow make us a better person?

Being fast, has its costs. You want to reach SF from Boston faster, then you take plane instead of train. Which obviously costs you more. 

Then, I would say, as long the costs are acceptable then it is fine. You want to study as much as you can, while sacrificing your sleep. Is that acceptable?
If yes, then it is fine. Don't regret.

> "Whether you are a deer or a lion, you have to run fast to survive"

